source/blogs/vim_cheat_sheet.rst, before:

Vim Cheat Sheet
===============
`< Blog <../blog.html>`_

A quick reference to Vim.

Created on: 2019-09-08

Tag: `cheat_sheet <tag_cheat_sheet.html>`_, `living_in_the_shell <tag_living_in_the_shell.html>`_

.. warning:: under heavy construction and not well organized

.. role:: kbd

exit from vim
-------------
to exit from vim press :kbd:`Esc` then type `:q!`


subscript
---------

  :kbd:`ctrl` + :kbd:`k` [digit] :kbd:`s`


(source: https://vi.stackexchange.com/q/7368)

superscript
-----------

  :kbd:`ctrl` + :kbd:`k` [digit] :kbd:`S`

(source: https://vi.stackexchange.com/q/7368)

indent multiple lines
---------------------
to indent multiple lines select lines in VISUAL mode and do

    :kbd:`>`

do one level indentation of next five line

    :kbd:`5 >` 

https://stackoverflow.com/a/235841

paste mode
----------
to enable paste mode do

   :kbd:`Esc` then type `:set paste`

insert current date in next line
--------------------------------
to insert current date in next line:

     :kbd:`Esc` then type `:pu=strftime('%Y-%m-%d')`

https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Insert_current_date_or_time

insert current date in cursor location
--------------------------------------
to insert current date in cursor location in normal mode:

    :kbd:`Esc` then type `"=strftime('%Y-%m-%d')`. Now press :kbd:`Crtl` + :kbd:`m`. Then press :kbd:`p`


to insert current date in cursor location in insert mode:

   :kbd:`Crtl` + :kbd:`r` then type `=strftime('%Y-%m-%d')`. Now press :kbd:`Crtl` + :kbd:`m`.


https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/8109/

Switching case of characters
----------------------------
to switching case of characters

    Toggle case "HellO" to "hELLo" with :kbd:`g` + :kbd:`~` then a movement.
    
    Uppercase "HellO" to "HELLO" with :kbd:`g` + :kbd:`U` then a movement.
    
    Lowercase "HellO" to "hello" with :kbd:`g` + :kbd:`u` then a movement.

https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Switching_case_of_characters
https://stackoverflow.com/a/2966034


find and replace
----------------
to find and replace

    :kbd:`Esc` the :kbd:`:` the `%s/$REPLACE_THIS/$WITH_THIS/g`

pecific lines

    :kbd:`Esc` the :kbd:`:` the `$START_LINE,$END_LINEs/$REPLACE_THIS/$WITH_THIS/g`

add `c` after `g` to enter an interactive mode.

source: `Find and replace strings in vim on multiple lines <https://stackoverflow.com/a/19995072>`_

move to the beginning of line
-----------------------------
to move to the beginning or start of line:

    :kbd:`0`

source: https://stackoverflow.com/a/10243634

move to the end of line
-----------------------
to move to the end of line:

    :kbd:`$`

source: https://stackoverflow.com/a/105734

delete all line till end
------------------------
to delete all line till end:

    :kbd:`d` + :kbd:`G`

source: https://stackoverflow.com/a/8124616

open in readonly mode
---------------------
to open in readonly mode inside vim:

   :kbd:`Esc` + :kbd:`:` then type `view /path/to/file`

source: https://stackoverflow.com/a/18395765

display line numbers
--------------------
to display line numbers:

   :kbd:`Esc` + :kbd:`:` then type `set number` or `set nu`

to disable::

    :kbd:`Esc` + :kbd:`:` then type `set nonumber` or `set nonu`

source: https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Display_line_numbers

see file type
-------------
to see file type:

    :kbd:`Esc` + :kbd:`:` then type `set ft`

source: https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Filetype.vim

macros
------
record a macros:

    :kbd:`Esc` then :kbd:`q` + :kbd:`any key like d,m,n` for register.

the do you task and press :kbd:`q`. It will save the macro to the register [one of those d,m,n that you pressed]. To use the macro:

    number_of_times_you_want_to_execute + :kbd:`@` + :kbd:`register_key_d_m_or_n`

source: https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Macros

abbreviations
-------------
set an abbreviation:

    :kbd:`Esc` then :kbd:`:` `ab $ABBREVIATION $FULL_TEXT_FOR_THE_ABBREVIATION`

for example:

    :kbd:`:` `ab rtfm read the fine manual`

source: https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Using_abbreviations

fix indentation
---------------
to fix indentation on a selected part of the file:

    :kbd:`=`

to fix indentation on a whole file:

    :kbd:`g` + :kbd:`g` + :kbd:`=` + :kbd:`G`

source: https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Fix_indentation

edit multiple files
-------------------
to edit multiple files open files::

    vim foo.txt bar.txt

go to next file with:

    :kbd:`:` then type `n` or `next`

go to previous file with:

    :kbd:`:` then type `N` or `prev` or `previous`

write and go to next file with:

    :kbd:`:` then type `wn` or `wnext`

write and go to previous file with:

    :kbd:`:` then type `wN` or `wprevious`

to see files list:

    :kbd:`:` then type `args`

the file with `[]` is the currently active file.

source: https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/27590

spelling suggestions
--------------------
On Normal mode (If not in Normal mode press :kbd:`Esc`), keep courser on a misspelled word and do the following to see spelling suggestions:

    :kbd:`z` + :kbd:`=`

Now we will see a list of all possible spelling suggestions with a number in front of them. Type the number you want to use and press enter. To get out of the suggester without using any suggestion, press :kbd:`Esc`.

source: http://vimdoc.sourceforge.net/htmldoc/spell.html#z=

vim replace newline with space
------------------------------
https://stackoverflow.com/a/71334
https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/247331

vim give 3 space before selected line visual
--------------------------------------------
https://vi.stackexchange.com/a/4490/13999


Source
------
 - ` <>`_

Commit message:

modify vim_cheat_sheet.rst to add new cheats
modified vim_cheat_sheet.rst to add new cheats:

- replace newline with space
- add n number space or multi line courser

source/blogs/vim_cheat_sheet.rst, after:

Vim Cheat Sheet
===============
`< Blog <../blog.html>`_

A quick reference to Vim.

Created on: 2019-09-08

Tag: `cheat_sheet <tag_cheat_sheet.html>`_, `living_in_the_shell <tag_living_in_the_shell.html>`_

.. warning:: under heavy construction and not well organized

.. role:: kbd

exit from vim
-------------
to exit from vim press :kbd:`Esc` then type `:q!`


subscript
---------

  :kbd:`ctrl` + :kbd:`k` [digit] :kbd:`s`


(source: https://vi.stackexchange.com/q/7368)

superscript
-----------

  :kbd:`ctrl` + :kbd:`k` [digit] :kbd:`S`

(source: https://vi.stackexchange.com/q/7368)

indent multiple lines
---------------------
to indent multiple lines select lines in VISUAL mode and do

    :kbd:`>`

do one level indentation of next five line

    :kbd:`5 >` 

https://stackoverflow.com/a/235841

paste mode
----------
to enable paste mode do

   :kbd:`Esc` then type `:set paste`

insert current date in next line
--------------------------------
to insert current date in next line:

     :kbd:`Esc` then type `:pu=strftime('%Y-%m-%d')`

https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Insert_current_date_or_time

insert current date in cursor location
--------------------------------------
to insert current date in cursor location in normal mode:

    :kbd:`Esc` then type `"=strftime('%Y-%m-%d')`. Now press :kbd:`Crtl` + :kbd:`m`. Then press :kbd:`p`


to insert current date in cursor location in insert mode:

   :kbd:`Crtl` + :kbd:`r` then type `=strftime('%Y-%m-%d')`. Now press :kbd:`Crtl` + :kbd:`m`.


https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/8109/

Switching case of characters
----------------------------
to switching case of characters

    Toggle case "HellO" to "hELLo" with :kbd:`g` + :kbd:`~` then a movement.
    
    Uppercase "HellO" to "HELLO" with :kbd:`g` + :kbd:`U` then a movement.
    
    Lowercase "HellO" to "hello" with :kbd:`g` + :kbd:`u` then a movement.

https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Switching_case_of_characters
https://stackoverflow.com/a/2966034


find and replace
----------------
to find and replace

    :kbd:`Esc` the :kbd:`:` the `%s/$REPLACE_THIS/$WITH_THIS/g`

pecific lines

    :kbd:`Esc` the :kbd:`:` the `$START_LINE,$END_LINEs/$REPLACE_THIS/$WITH_THIS/g`

add `c` after `g` to enter an interactive mode.

source: `Find and replace strings in vim on multiple lines <https://stackoverflow.com/a/19995072>`_

move to the beginning of line
-----------------------------
to move to the beginning or start of line:

    :kbd:`0`

source: https://stackoverflow.com/a/10243634

move to the end of line
-----------------------
to move to the end of line:

    :kbd:`$`

source: https://stackoverflow.com/a/105734

delete all line till end
------------------------
to delete all line till end:

    :kbd:`d` + :kbd:`G`

source: https://stackoverflow.com/a/8124616

open in readonly mode
---------------------
to open in readonly mode inside vim:

   :kbd:`Esc` + :kbd:`:` then type `view /path/to/file`

source: https://stackoverflow.com/a/18395765

display line numbers
--------------------
to display line numbers:

   :kbd:`Esc` + :kbd:`:` then type `set number` or `set nu`

to disable::

    :kbd:`Esc` + :kbd:`:` then type `set nonumber` or `set nonu`

source: https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Display_line_numbers

see file type
-------------
to see file type:

    :kbd:`Esc` + :kbd:`:` then type `set ft`

source: https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Filetype.vim

macros
------
record a macros:

    :kbd:`Esc` then :kbd:`q` + :kbd:`any key like d,m,n` for register.

the do you task and press :kbd:`q`. It will save the macro to the register [one of those d,m,n that you pressed]. To use the macro:

    number_of_times_you_want_to_execute + :kbd:`@` + :kbd:`register_key_d_m_or_n`

source: https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Macros

abbreviations
-------------
set an abbreviation:

    :kbd:`Esc` then :kbd:`:` `ab $ABBREVIATION $FULL_TEXT_FOR_THE_ABBREVIATION`

for example:

    :kbd:`:` `ab rtfm read the fine manual`

source: https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Using_abbreviations

fix indentation
---------------
to fix indentation on a selected part of the file:

    :kbd:`=`

to fix indentation on a whole file:

    :kbd:`g` + :kbd:`g` + :kbd:`=` + :kbd:`G`

source: https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Fix_indentation

edit multiple files
-------------------
to edit multiple files open files::

    vim foo.txt bar.txt

go to next file with:

    :kbd:`:` then type `n` or `next`

go to previous file with:

    :kbd:`:` then type `N` or `prev` or `previous`

write and go to next file with:

    :kbd:`:` then type `wn` or `wnext`

write and go to previous file with:

    :kbd:`:` then type `wN` or `wprevious`

to see files list:

    :kbd:`:` then type `args`

the file with `[]` is the currently active file.

source: https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/27590

spelling suggestions
--------------------
On Normal mode (If not in Normal mode press :kbd:`Esc`), keep courser on a misspelled word and do the following to see spelling suggestions:

    :kbd:`z` + :kbd:`=`

Now we will see a list of all possible spelling suggestions with a number in front of them. Type the number you want to use and press enter. To get out of the suggester without using any suggestion, press :kbd:`Esc`.

source: http://vimdoc.sourceforge.net/htmldoc/spell.html#z=

.. replace newline with space
.. --------------------------
.. To replace newline with space generally we need to do, `%s/\/n/ /g` but ``\n`` does not represent new line in vim so we do:

    :kbd:`Esc` the :kbd:`:` the `%s/\/r/ /g`

.. https://stackoverflow.com/a/71334
.. https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/247331

give n number space before selected line visual
-----------------------------------------------
To give n number space in front of ie. before selected lines, enter blockwise visual mode by pressing:

    :kbd:`Ctrl` + :kbd:`v`

Now selected the desire number of lines and then enter a special insert mode by pressing:

    :kbd:`Shift` + :kbd:`i`

Now add spaces in the first line and save the document to see the effects on selected line. This is a neat way to do multiline editing by having multi cursor mode.

source: https://vi.stackexchange.com/a/4490/13999


Source
------
 - ` <>`_
